Create rule S5344(python): Passwords should not be stored in plain-text or with a fast hashing algorithm (#3715)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S5344/python/how-to-fix-it/argon2.adoc

== How to fix it in Argon2-cffi

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,python,diff-id=200,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
from argon2 import PasswordHasher, profiles

def hash_password(password):
    ph = PasswordHasher.from_parameters(profiles.CHEAPEST) # Noncompliant
    return ph.hash(password)
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,python,diff-id=200,diff-type=compliant]
----
from argon2 import PasswordHasher

def hash_password(password):
    ph = PasswordHasher()
    return ph.hash(password)
----

=== How does this work?

include::../../common/fix/argon-parameters.adoc[]

> To use values recommended by the Argon2 authors, you can craft objects as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use values recommended by the Argon2 authors, you can use the following objects:
```

* https://argon2-cffi.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api.html#argon2.profiles.RFC_9106_HIGH_MEMORY[argon2.profiles.RFC_9106_HIGH_MEMORY]
* https://argon2-cffi.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api.html#argon2.profiles.RFC_9106_LOW_MEMORY[argon2.profiles.RFC_9106_LOW_MEMORY]

To use values recommended by the OWASP you can craft objects as follows:

[source, python]
----
from argon2 import Parameters
from argon2.low_level import ARGON2_VERSION, Type

OWASP_1 = argon2.Parameters(
        type=Type.ID,
        version=ARGON2_VERSION,
        salt_len=16,
        hash_len=32,
        time_cost=1,
        memory_cost=47104, # 46 MiB
        parallelism=1)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

== How to fix it in Argon2-cffi

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,python,diff-id=200,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
from argon2 import PasswordHasher, profiles

def hash_password(password):
    ph = PasswordHasher.from_parameters(profiles.CHEAPEST) # Noncompliant
    return ph.hash(password)
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,python,diff-id=200,diff-type=compliant]
----
from argon2 import PasswordHasher

def hash_password(password):
    ph = PasswordHasher()
    return ph.hash(password)
----

=== How does this work?

include::../../common/fix/argon-parameters.adoc[]

> The values recommended by the Argon2 authors are the two following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use values recommended by the Argon2 authors, you can use the two following objects:
```

* https://argon2-cffi.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api.html#argon2.profiles.RFC_9106_HIGH_MEMORY[argon2.profiles.RFC_9106_HIGH_MEMORY]
* https://argon2-cffi.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api.html#argon2.profiles.RFC_9106_LOW_MEMORY[argon2.profiles.RFC_9106_LOW_MEMORY]

> The values recommended by the OWASP are the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use values recommended by the OWASP you can use an object such as the following:
```

[source, python]
----

> from argon2 import Parameters

Reviewer: Very good idea, thank you

from argon2.low_level import ARGON2_VERSION, Type

OWASP_1 = argon2.Parameters(
        type=Type.ID,
        version=ARGON2_VERSION,
        salt_len=16,
        hash_len=32,
        time_cost=1,
        memory_cost=47104, # 46 MiB
        parallelism=1)

> OWASP_2 = argon2.Parameters(
>         type=Type.ID,
>         version=ARGON2_VERSION,
>         salt_len=16,
>         hash_len=32,
>         time_cost=2,
>         memory_cost=19456,  # 19 MiB
>         parallelism=1)
> 
> OWASP_3 = argon2.Parameters(
>         type=Type.ID,
>         version=ARGON2_VERSION,
>         salt_len=16,
>         hash_len=32,
>         time_cost=3,
>         memory_cost=12288,  # 12 MiB
>         parallelism=1)
> 
> OWASP_4 = argon2.Parameters(
>         type=Type.ID,
>         version=ARGON2_VERSION,
>         salt_len=16,
>         hash_len=32,
>         time_cost=4,
>         memory_cost=9216,  # 9 MiB
>         parallelism=1)
> 
> OWASP_5 = argon2.Parameters(
>         type=Type.ID,
>         version=ARGON2_VERSION,
>         salt_len=16,
>         hash_len=32,
>         time_cost=5,
>         memory_cost=7168,  # 7 MiB
>         parallelism=1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
